ESA

This first mission of ESA's ExoMars program consists of a Trace Gas Orbiter plus an Entry, descent and landing Demonstrator Module, known as Schiaparelli (which transmitted data during its descent before crash landing on the martian surface). The main objectives of this mission are to search for evidence of methane and other trace atmospheric gases.

maven

MAVEN, which stands for Mars Atmosphere and Volatile Evolution mission, has provided first-of-its-kind measurements to address key questions about Mars climate and habitability and improve understanding of dynamic processes in the upper Martian atmosphere and ionosphere.

mom

Sometimes referred to by the nickname "Mangalyaan," the Mars Orbiter Mission is India's first interplanetary spacecraft. It is primarily a technology demonstration mission that carries a small, 15-kilogram payload of 5 science instruments. It entered orbit at Mars in September 2014, just two days after the arrival of NASA's MAVEN mission. The orbit is highly elliptical, from 387 to 80,000 kilometers.

curiosity

Curiosity is the next generation of rover, building on the successes of Spirit and Opportunity. It landed in Gale Crater, the location of a 5+ km tall mound of layered sedimentary material, which Curiosity has found was at least partially deposited in a lake setting. The rover has also made key discoveries such as the detection of organic material. 

beagle

 Beagle 2 may have landed too hard, the victim of an unexpectedly thin atmosphere at the time of its arrival.
Mars Express successfully entered orbit on December 26 and immediately began returning stunning, 3D, color images. Mars Express has detected surprising concentrations of methane and evidence for recent volcanism on Mars. Its radar sounder, MARSIS, was deployed late in the mission due to spacecraft safety concerns, but is functioning well.

mars odessey

Mars Odyssey is capturing images of the Martian surface at resolutions between those of Viking and Mars Global Surveyor, and is making both daytime and nighttime observations of the surface in thermal infrared wavelengths at resolutions higher than ever before. It has detected massive deposits of water lying below Mars’ surface in near-polar regions and widespread deposits of olivine across the planet, indicating a dry past for Mars.

exomars 2020

ESA's ExoMars 2020 mission will deliver a European rover and a Russian surface platform to the surface of Mars. A Proton rocket will be used to launch the mission, which will arrive to Mars after a nine-month journey. The ExoMars rover will travel across the Martian surface to search for signs of life.

insight

InSight (Interior Exploration using Seismic Investigations, Geodesy and Heat Transport) is a Mars lander full of geophysical instruments. Using a seismometer, heat flow probe, and precision tracking it seeks to explore the deep interior of Mars and improve our understanding of the formation of terrestrial planets.
