

						SURFACE


curiosity clay
	Mount Sharp stands in the middle of Gale Crater, which is 96 miles (154 kilometers) in diameter. This mound, which Curiosity has been climbing since 2014, likely formed in the presence of water at various points of time in Mars ancient history. That makes it an ideal place to study how water influenced the habitability of Mars billions of years ago.

mars rock
	The dark, stick-shaped features clustered on this Martian rock are about the size of grains of rice. This is a focus-merged view from the Mars Hand Lens Imager (MAHLI) camera on NASA's Curiosity Mars rover. It covers an area about 2 inches (5 centimeters) across.The origin of the stick-shaped features is uncertain. One possibility is that they are erosion-resistant bits of dark material from mineral veins cutting through rocks in this area.

mount sharp
	Mount Sharp stands about 3 miles (5 kilometers) high in the middle of Gale Crater, which spans 96 miles (154 kilometers) in diameter. Vera Rubin Ridge is on the northwestern flank of lower Mount Sharp. The foreground of this panorama shows portions of lower Mount Sharp. The middle distance shows the floor of Gale Crater. Most of the horizon is formed by the crater's rim. The top of the rim is about 1.2 miles (2 kilometers) higher than the rover's position. On the horizon near the center of the image is a glimpse outside of Gale Crater, to a peak about 50 miles (85 kilometers) from the rover.

vera rubin ridge
	"Vera Rubin Ridge" on lower Mount Sharp, in an area where reconnaissance imaging with science filters revealed variability in indications of the mineral hematite. Removing dust from part of the Christmas Cove target was part of an experiment to check whether dust is subduing the apparent indications of hematite in some of the area's bedrock. The brushed area's purplish tint in this MAHLI image, accentuated even more when observed with science filters of the rover's Mast Camera, is characteristic of fine-grained hematite.Brushing of this target also exposed details in the fine layering and bright veins within the bedrock of this part of Vera Rubin Ridge. 

lakebed
	"Hidden Valley," seen from the valley floor..Thick-laminated, evenly-stratified rock type that forms stratigraphically beneath cross-bedded sandstones regarded as ancient river deposits. These rocks are interpreted to record sedimentation in a lake, as part of or in front of a delta, where plumes of river sediment settled out of the water column and onto the lake floor.

rock
	Piling up on the rock after drilling, showing the rock was not firmly in place. Because of the loose rock, the drill hole was not completed.Vibrations from the drilling cleaned off some of the rock veins, revealing a lighter color. The tailings from the incomplete drill hole are actually a gray-green color.This image was taken by the rover's Mast Camera (Mastcam)